 Shayan Heidary
Frontend Engineer Berlin, Germany +49 17621701815 Website Linkedin Github hdrydeveloper@gmail.com Spearheaded the delivery of engineering solutions for web,web applications, leveraging ReactJS, VueJS, NextJS, NodeJS,
and, resulting in +10 successful projects and around 3 years of proven success in exceeding client expectations.
Skills
Experiences
KNIME GmbH, Berlin Germany, Software engineer (frontend focus) ........... 01.01.2024 - 01.09.2024
● Led migration from Options API to Composition API and TypeScrip, improving performance by 15%.
● Migrated all KNIME packages to a monorepo ecosystem in collaboration with frontend developers, resulting in a 25% performance boost.
● Established utility functions and minimized code duplications by 8%, significantly improving code maintainability and efficiency; resulted in a 20%
reduction in user complaints and enhanced overall user satisfaction.
● Introduced 3 searchable widgets, improving user experience by 20% and boosting client satisfaction by 100%.
● Implemented rigorous testing protocols using Jest for components, attaining 98% code coverage and ensuring system reliability, which led to a 35%
decrease in critical bugs.
● Engineered a widget refresh button with monitoring and logging features in open source KNIME software, enhanced timestamp management and
provided detailed analytics, leading to 10% improved system performance and 20% increased data accuracy.
Programmers House, Tehran Iran, Frontend developer ........... 01.04.2020 - 01.01.2022
● Applied rigorous Clean Coding standards and Test-Driven Development practices, cutting bug reports by 17% and decreasing customer-reported issues by 20% within the first quarter of implementation.
● Reduced load times by 10% through designing and developing React.js and components for seamless data integration.
● boosted mobile user engagement by 35% by ensuring mobile responsiveness of web applications.
● Maintained 100% code integrity across multiple projects by managing source code versioning with Git.
● Engineered React Router migration to v6+, Achieved a 15% reduction in bundle size and resolved path-matching issues, improving overall application
performance.
● Experienced in workflow automation and build processes using Gulp,and Webpack to streamline development and improve efficiency.
● Optimized data visualizations using D3.js, enhancing the charts' performance by 10%.
● Developed RESTful API integration within React.js Library and NextJS to facilitate seamless data exchange collaborating with backend Team.
● Led successful migration of state managemen, Transitioned from Redux Toolkit to React Query, resulting in a 12% increase in code maintainability and
readability.
● Utilized Error Boundaries to catch JavaScript errors, preventing the entire app from crashing.
Education
● Master in IT- Management, Berlin School of Business and Innovation 2022 - 2024.
● Bachelor in Software Engineering, ISLAMIC AZAD UNIVERSITY 2015 - 2020
Language
● German B2
● English Fluent
      ● ReactJS, VueJS, Angular ● JavaScript, TypeScript ● NodeJS, ExpressJS, Postgres ● HTML5, CSS3, SCSS
 ● Bootstrap, Tailwind,MUI ● GIT/GitHub,Linux ● Github actions(CI-CD), AWS ● TDD, OPP
 ● UnitTest, Jest, e2e ● Docker, Agile, AWS ● Design Pattern, CleanCode ● Webpack, Vite, NPM
